share/doc/wake/tour/packages.adoc, before:

= Packages

Every wake file is a member of a package.
Packages can <<exports,export>> identifiers which may then be <<imports,imported>> by other packages.
Indeed, even the wake standard library lives in a package,
which must be imported by all but the most trivial of files.
Therefore, you will need to interact with the package system.

== Package names

----
package hello_sifive
----

Files declare their package membership using the `package` keyword.
Only one package statement is legal per file.
If a file does not declare a package name,
then the file belongs to an unnamed package containing only that file.

Package names must be legal wake identifiers.
That means package names must start with a letter and cannot contain operators (like `.`) in them.
To reduce the chance that two packages accidentally select the same name in a large workspace,
the convention is to treat package names like Internet host names with `_` between words.
In other words, it is good practice to end a package name with `_company`.
If you are working on project `cats` in division `love` of company `hugs`,
then `package cats_love_hugs` would be a safe choice.

In general, a single directory should not contain wake files from different packages.
If you adhere to this convention,
the wake command-line can automatically access the current directory's package
(more on this <<command-line,later>>).
Splitting a large package across multiple directories,
perhaps to co-locate build files with source files,
is considered good practice.

[[exports]]
== Exports

By default, all top-level identifiers in a file are package-local, i.e. not exported.
Packages use the `export` keyword to make identifiers available to other packages.

----
package math_megacorp
export def pi = 3.141592654
def e = 2.718281828
----

In the above example, all files in package `math_megacorp` can access both `pi` and `e`.
It would be an error if a different file in `math_megacorp` also defined `e`.

The definition `pi` is available for import by other packages.
By contrast, the definition of `e` is invisible to other packages; they cannot import it.

----
export def f x = x * x
export def a &*& b = and a b
export target fib n = match n
  0 = 1
  1 = 1
  _ = fib (n-1) + fib (n-2)
export data MyBoolean =
  MyTrue
  MyFalse
export tuple Friend =
  export Name: String
  Age: Integer
export topic friends: Friend
----

The `export` keyword can be applied to all the top-level expressions above.
The first two examples export definitions of the function `f` and the binary operator `&*&`.
The `target` example exports a memoized function,
detailed in the <<targets#,Target Memoization documentation>>.

[[categories]]
In wake, there are actually three different categories of identifiers:
definitions, types, and topics.
Identifiers which appear after a `tuple`, `data`, or `:` refer to types.
Identifiers after a `publish`, `subscribe`, or `topic` keyword refer to topics.
All other identifiers refer to definitions, the most common category.

The expression `export data MyBoolean` in the example triggers the export of three identifiers:

- the type `MyBoolean`
- the definition `MyTrue`, used to construct a `MyBoolean` and match it in patterns
- the definition `MyFalse`

If only some of these identifiers should be exported,
this can be achieved by using a <<re-export,re-export>>, detailed later.

The expression `export tuple Friend` in the example triggers both the export of the type `Friend`
and the definition `Friend`, used to construct a `Friend` and match it in patterns.
The subsequent `export Name` triggers the export of the type `Friend` and definitions
`getFriendName`, `setFriendName`, and `editFriendName`.
By contrast, the `getFriendAge` definition is not exported.
See the <<tuples#,Tuples documentation>> for more details.

Finally, `export topic friends` trigers the export of the topic `friends`.
See the <<publish-subscribe#,Publish/Subscribe documentation>> for more details.

[[imports]]
== Imports

----
from wake import _
from wake import map foldl Pair
from wake import myMap=map foldl myFoldr=foldr
from wake import def map foldl
from wake import def unary + -
from wake import def binary * /
from wake import type Pair Result
from wake import topic environment path

def myfun x =
  from wake import * +
  (x * x) + x
----

The wake `import` syntax allows for a varying degree of specificity to make
it convenient in the common case, but precise enough where needed.

The `from pkg import _` syntax bulk imports all exports from package `pkg` into scope.
The `import` expression can be used at the file top-level (i.e., unindented), which makes the
imported identifiers available to the entire contents of the file (but not the package).
By contrast, `import` inside a function definition only makes the imported identifiers
available to the contents of that definition.
In both cases, any local `def` expressions will silently override the import.

The syntax `from pkg import x y Z` will import from all three wake <<categories,identifier categories>>.
Thus, if there is a type `Z` and a definition `Z`, this example will import both.
If no identifier is found in any of the categories, the import results in an error.

- Use `from pkg import def x y Z` to explicitly only import definitions.
- Use `from pkg import type Pair Result` to only import types.
- Use `from pkg import topic path environment` to only import topics.

[[unary-binary]]
The last remaining wrinkle is that operators in wake have two forms: unary and binary.
----
def a + b = ... # binary
def +a    = ... # unary
def expr  = +4 + 6 # uses both
----

The syntax `from wake import +` will import both the unary and binary versions of `+`
from all identifier categories (yes, you can have a type called `+`, though not a topic).
By contrast, `from wake import unary +` will only import the unary version from all categories.
Finally, `from wake import def unary +` will specifically import only the unary definition.
In all cases, if no identifiers match, the import will result in an error.

----
from wake import def myfun=map myfun=foldl
----
It is illegal to import something to the same identifier twice.
In the above example, both `map` and `foldl` were imported to the same identifier `myfun`.
This is illegal.

----
from wake import _
from wake import map
----
By contrast, it is legal to import the same identifier twice if one
(or more) of the imports was a bulk `_` import.
Instead, any attempt to use `map` will result in an ambiguous import error.
This special case exists to make it possible to bulk import from two
packages which have an identifier conflict.
If the conflicting identifier from one of the packages is needed,
it can be specifically imported under a new unambiguous name.

For backwards compatibility, if a wake file has no top-level imports,
it implicitly bulk imports all identifiers from the `wake` package.
This behaviour will be removed before the release of 1.0.

[[globals]]
== Globals

For backwards compatibility, wake supports a `global` keyword.
This deprecated feature selects the same identifiers as <<exports,export>>.
However, `global` identifiers are not available for <<imports,import>>.
Instead, a global identifier is available for resolution to all wake files in the workspace.

[[resolution]]
== Identifier resolution

----
package example
from pkg1 import _
def y = ...
def example =
  from pkg2 import _
  def z = ...
  identifier
----

To find `identifier`, wake looks through these scopes:

- definition-local identifiers (`z` in the example)
- definition-local imports (`pkg2` exports)
- file-local identifiers (`y`)
- file-local imports (`pkg1` exports)
- same-package identifiers (`example` identifiers, which includes at least `y`)
- global identifiers

Each level of scope can redefine identifiers from outer scopes.
References to a redefined identifier silently select the innermost scope.
If you are ever unsure how an identifier is resolved,
click on it in the html-marked-up sources
(`wake --html > foo.html`).

[[re-export]]
== Re-exports

It is sometimes useful to export an identifier from a package that did not define it.
This can be used, for example, to create versioned API packages,
which export exactly the same identifiers and functionality even as the unversioned
package evolves.

----
package v1_wake
from wake export def map foldl
from wake export def binary + - * /
from wake export topic path environment
from wake export type Pair Result
----

Compared to the very similar <<imports,import>> syntax,
re-export syntax uses the `export` keyword instead of the `import` keyword.
Furthermore, one must use the most precise form of identifier selection.
`from wake export +` would be illegal as this might pull
<<unary-binary,unary or binary>> identifiers from both definition and type
<<categories,categories>>.

When an identifier is re-exported,
it becomes a package export and
is placed into both file-local and package-level identifier <<resolution,scope>>.
Thus, `from wake export map` will conflict with any other `def map` in the package.

----
package example
data MyBoolean =
  MyTrue
  MyFalse

from example export def YourTrue=MyTrue
from example export type YourBoolean=MyBoolean
----

This example demonstrates how re-export syntax can be used to slice
identifiers more finely than the standard `export` keyword prefix.
In this situation, only one of the type constructors was exported.
Note that `from example export def MyTrue` would fail,
because it would re-introduce `MyTrue`
as a conflicting package-level identifier.

[[command-line]]
== Command-line

When wake is invoked from the command-line,
it can be used to evaluate an expression or invoke a `main` function.
In both cases, a package scope must be selected to produce useful work.

First, wake progressively searches from the current directory
up to the workspace root for wake files.
If no wake files are found, the `wake` package is selected.
If the wake files found share a common package, that package is selected.
Otherwise, the `wake` package is selected,
though this many be manually overridden using the '--in' command-line option.

By default, when evaluating the command-line,
wake passes all non-options to the selected package's `main` function.
This function can then trigger the appropriate build.
If an appropriate wake file is placed in the workspace root,
this can make invoking the build as simple as running `wake` with no options.

When invoked with `wake -r '5 + 6'`,
wake will evaluate the next argument as an expression.
That expression is evaluated within the scope of the selected package.
Thus, it has access to even unexported package-level identifiers.
Furthermore, all bulk imports made by files in the selected package are also
made available to the expression.

Commit message:

wake: make it legal to re-export a symbol to the same name

share/doc/wake/tour/packages.adoc, after:

= Packages

Every wake file is a member of a package.
Packages can <<exports,export>> identifiers which may then be <<imports,imported>> by other packages.
Indeed, even the wake standard library lives in a package,
which must be imported by all but the most trivial of files.
Therefore, you will need to interact with the package system.

== Package names

----
package hello_sifive
----

Files declare their package membership using the `package` keyword.
Only one package statement is legal per file.
If a file does not declare a package name,
then the file belongs to an unnamed package containing only that file.

Package names must be legal wake identifiers.
That means package names must start with a letter and cannot contain operators (like `.`) in them.
To reduce the chance that two packages accidentally select the same name in a large workspace,
the convention is to treat package names like Internet host names with `_` between words.
In other words, it is good practice to end a package name with `_company`.
If you are working on project `cats` in division `love` of company `hugs`,
then `package cats_love_hugs` would be a safe choice.

In general, a single directory should not contain wake files from different packages.
If you adhere to this convention,
the wake command-line can automatically access the current directory's package
(more on this <<command-line,later>>).
Splitting a large package across multiple directories,
perhaps to co-locate build files with source files,
is considered good practice.

[[exports]]
== Exports

By default, all top-level identifiers in a file are package-local, i.e. not exported.
Packages use the `export` keyword to make identifiers available to other packages.

----
package math_megacorp
export def pi = 3.141592654
def e = 2.718281828
----

In the above example, all files in package `math_megacorp` can access both `pi` and `e`.
It would be an error if a different file in `math_megacorp` also defined `e`.

The definition `pi` is available for import by other packages.
By contrast, the definition of `e` is invisible to other packages; they cannot import it.

----
export def f x = x * x
export def a &*& b = and a b
export target fib n = match n
  0 = 1
  1 = 1
  _ = fib (n-1) + fib (n-2)
export data MyBoolean =
  MyTrue
  MyFalse
export tuple Friend =
  export Name: String
  Age: Integer
export topic friends: Friend
----

The `export` keyword can be applied to all the top-level expressions above.
The first two examples export definitions of the function `f` and the binary operator `&*&`.
The `target` example exports a memoized function,
detailed in the <<targets#,Target Memoization documentation>>.

[[categories]]
In wake, there are actually three different categories of identifiers:
definitions, types, and topics.
Identifiers which appear after a `tuple`, `data`, or `:` refer to types.
Identifiers after a `publish`, `subscribe`, or `topic` keyword refer to topics.
All other identifiers refer to definitions, the most common category.

The expression `export data MyBoolean` in the example triggers the export of three identifiers:

- the type `MyBoolean`
- the definition `MyTrue`, used to construct a `MyBoolean` and match it in patterns
- the definition `MyFalse`

If only some of these identifiers should be exported,
this can be achieved by using a <<re-export,re-export>>, detailed later.

The expression `export tuple Friend` in the example triggers both the export of the type `Friend`
and the definition `Friend`, used to construct a `Friend` and match it in patterns.
The subsequent `export Name` triggers the export of the type `Friend` and definitions
`getFriendName`, `setFriendName`, and `editFriendName`.
By contrast, the `getFriendAge` definition is not exported.
See the <<tuples#,Tuples documentation>> for more details.

Finally, `export topic friends` trigers the export of the topic `friends`.
See the <<publish-subscribe#,Publish/Subscribe documentation>> for more details.

[[imports]]
== Imports

----
from wake import _
from wake import map foldl Pair
from wake import myMap=map foldl myFoldr=foldr
from wake import def map foldl
from wake import def unary + -
from wake import def binary * /
from wake import type Pair Result
from wake import topic environment path

def myfun x =
  from wake import * +
  (x * x) + x
----

The wake `import` syntax allows for a varying degree of specificity to make
it convenient in the common case, but precise enough where needed.

The `from pkg import _` syntax bulk imports all exports from package `pkg` into scope.
The `import` expression can be used at the file top-level (i.e., unindented), which makes the
imported identifiers available to the entire contents of the file (but not the package).
By contrast, `import` inside a function definition only makes the imported identifiers
available to the contents of that definition.
In both cases, any local `def` expressions will silently override the import.

The syntax `from pkg import x y Z` will import from all three wake <<categories,identifier categories>>.
Thus, if there is a type `Z` and a definition `Z`, this example will import both.
If no identifier is found in any of the categories, the import results in an error.

- Use `from pkg import def x y Z` to explicitly only import definitions.
- Use `from pkg import type Pair Result` to only import types.
- Use `from pkg import topic path environment` to only import topics.

[[unary-binary]]
The last remaining wrinkle is that operators in wake have two forms: unary and binary.
----
def a + b = ... # binary
def +a    = ... # unary
def expr  = +4 + 6 # uses both
----

The syntax `from wake import +` will import both the unary and binary versions of `+`
from all identifier categories (yes, you can have a type called `+`, though not a topic).
By contrast, `from wake import unary +` will only import the unary version from all categories.
Finally, `from wake import def unary +` will specifically import only the unary definition.
In all cases, if no identifiers match, the import will result in an error.

----
from wake import def myfun=map myfun=foldl
----
It is illegal to import something to the same identifier twice.
In the above example, both `map` and `foldl` were imported to the same identifier `myfun`.
This is illegal.

----
from wake import _
from wake import map
----
By contrast, it is legal to import the same identifier twice if one
(or more) of the imports was a bulk `_` import.
Instead, any attempt to use `map` will result in an ambiguous import error.
This special case exists to make it possible to bulk import from two
packages which have an identifier conflict.
If the conflicting identifier from one of the packages is needed,
it can be specifically imported under a new unambiguous name.

For backwards compatibility, if a wake file has no top-level imports,
it implicitly bulk imports all identifiers from the `wake` package.
This behaviour will be removed before the release of 1.0.

[[globals]]
== Globals

For backwards compatibility, wake supports a `global` keyword.
This deprecated feature selects the same identifiers as <<exports,export>>.
However, `global` identifiers are not available for <<imports,import>>.
Instead, a global identifier is available for resolution to all wake files in the workspace.

[[resolution]]
== Identifier resolution

----
package example
from pkg1 import _
def y = ...
def example =
  from pkg2 import _
  def z = ...
  identifier
----

To find `identifier`, wake looks through these scopes:

- definition-local identifiers (`z` in the example)
- definition-local imports (`pkg2` exports)
- file-local identifiers (`y`)
- file-local imports (`pkg1` exports)
- same-package identifiers (`example` identifiers, which includes at least `y`)
- global identifiers

Each level of scope can redefine identifiers from outer scopes.
References to a redefined identifier silently select the innermost scope.
If you are ever unsure how an identifier is resolved,
click on it in the html-marked-up sources
(`wake --html > foo.html`).

[[re-export]]
== Re-exports

It is sometimes useful to export an identifier from a package that did not define it.
This can be used, for example, to create versioned API packages,
which export exactly the same identifiers and functionality even as the unversioned
package evolves.

----
package v1_wake
from wake export def map foldl
from wake export def binary + - * /
from wake export topic path environment
from wake export type Pair Result
----

Compared to the very similar <<imports,import>> syntax,
re-export syntax uses the `export` keyword instead of the `import` keyword.
Furthermore, one must use the most precise form of identifier selection.
`from wake export +` would be illegal as this might pull
<<unary-binary,unary or binary>> identifiers from both definition and type
<<categories,categories>>.

When an identifier is re-exported,
it becomes a package export and
is placed into both file-local and package-level identifier <<resolution,scope>>.

----
package example
data MyBoolean =
  MyTrue
  MyFalse

from example export def MyTrue
from example export type MyBoolean
----

This example demonstrates how re-export syntax can be used to slice
identifiers more finely than the standard `export` keyword prefix.
In this situation, only one of the type constructors was exported.
A same-package export must be used in file which declares the identifier.

[[command-line]]
== Command-line

When wake is invoked from the command-line,
it can be used to evaluate an expression or invoke a `main` function.
In both cases, a package scope must be selected to produce useful work.

First, wake progressively searches from the current directory
up to the workspace root for wake files.
If no wake files are found, the `wake` package is selected.
If the wake files found share a common package, that package is selected.
Otherwise, the `wake` package is selected,
though this many be manually overridden using the '--in' command-line option.

By default, when evaluating the command-line,
wake passes all non-options to the selected package's `main` function.
This function can then trigger the appropriate build.
If an appropriate wake file is placed in the workspace root,
this can make invoking the build as simple as running `wake` with no options.

When invoked with `wake -r '5 + 6'`,
wake will evaluate the next argument as an expression.
That expression is evaluated within the scope of the selected package.
Thus, it has access to even unexported package-level identifiers.
Furthermore, all bulk imports made by files in the selected package are also
made available to the expression.
